# pbbsbench 

# small_benchmarks
In the directory `small_benchmarks`, we are attempting to create an interface between the problems in PBBS and LLM, so that 
- User could turn the long reference implementations in PBBS into simpler benchmarks using Gemini 
- With the simpler benchmarks, we could in turn use them to assess the capabilities of LLMs in generating compilable, accurate, fast code. 


The Problem Based Benchmark Suite (PBBS) is a collection of over 20
benchmarks defined in terms of their IO characteristics.  They are
designed to make it possible to compare different algorithms, or
implementations in different programming languages.  The emphasis is
on parallel algorithms.  Our default implementations are for
shared-memory multicore machines, although we would be delighted if
others implemented versions on GPUs or distributed machines and made
comparisons.

A list of the benchmarks can be found on
[here](https://cmuparlay.github.io/pbbsbench/benchmarks/index.html).

Information on the organization and on how to run PBBS can be found on
[here](https://cmuparlay.github.io/pbbsbench).

And here is a paper outlining the benchmarks:

[The problem-based benchmark suite (PBBS), V2](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3503221.3508422)<br>
Daniel Anderson, Guy E. Blelloch, Laxman Dhulipala, Magdalen Dobson, and Yihan Sun<br>
ACM SIGPLAN Symposium on Principles & Practice of Parallel Programming (PPoPP), 2022
Private copy of the PBBS benchmark. 

# Working with LLM
Main directories:
* `prompts`
    * `prompts-with-description.json`: each prompt contains the detailed description of each algorithm together with the reference implementation from PBBS. 
    * `prompts-without-description.json`: each prompt only contains a one-line description of the algorithm, such as "Returns the input sequence with duplicates removed" and the function signature with relevant header files. 
* `generate`
    * `generate-gemini.py` takes the prompts in `prompts/` and generate code. 
    * `process-output.py`: takes the output generated by LLMs and extract relevant code and place them into the PBBS benchmarks.  
* `driver`
    * `run-baseline-impl.py`: compile and run the reference implementation in PBBS. 
    * `run-output.py`: it runs the extracted code generated by LLM and save the runtime in `eval-output` in each respective benchmark directory.
    * `process-logfile.py`: it process and gather the runtime of the algorithm(s) tested. If `TEST TERMINATED ABNORMALLY` appears in the log file, this log file and relevant information will be saved to `rerun-requests.json` automatically. You can use this information to rerun the tests. 
    * `rerun-from-requests.py`: You can use this script to rerun the algorithm. 
    * `plot-results.py`: used to plot the runtime of each algorithm and compare with baseline runtime.